---
layout: post
title:  "cmd102 File"
categories: cmd
---
## copy
Simple copy  [docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/copy)

1. Using /b

/b directs the command interpreter to read the number of bytes specified by the file size in the directory. /b is the default value for copy, unless copy combines files.

2. Using /y

Frequently used, /y indicates that Suppresses prompting to confirm that you want to overwrite an existing destination file. Can be overrided by /-y
<hr>

## xcopy
Copies files and directories, including subdirectories

Syantax `Xcopy <Source> [<Destination>] [/w] [/p] [/c] [/v] [/q] [/f] [/l] [/g] [/d [:MM-DD-YYYY]] [/u] [/i] [/s [/e]] [/t] [/k] [/r] [/h] [{/a | /m}] [/n] [/o] [/x] [/exclude:FileName1[+[FileName2]][+[FileName3]] [{/y | /-y}] [/z] [/b] [/j]`



<hr>

## move
Moves one or more files from one directory to another directory.

`move [{/y | /-y}] [<Source>] [<Target>]`

* /y	Suppresses prompting to confirm that you want to overwrite an existing destination file.
* /-y	Causes prompting to confirm that you want to overwrite an existing destination file.

<hr>


## type
In the Windows Command shell, type is a built in command which displays the contents of a text file. Use the type command to view a text file without modifying it.

type [<Drive>:][<Path>]<FileName>

###Frequently Used
* `typle nul > name` to create a file
<hr>

## more 
Displays one screen of output at a time.

`more [[/c] [/p] [/s] [/t<N>] [+<N>]] < [<Drive>:][<Path>]<FileName>`
`more [/c] [/p] [/s] [/t<N>] [+<N>] [<Files>]`


## Open a File
Just type in the file's name

<hr>


## rem
Records comments (remarks) in a batch file or CONFIG.SYS. If no comment is specified, rem adds vertical spacing.

## del & erase
Deletes one or more files. This command is the same as the erase command.