---
layout: post
title:  "MVVM 101"
categories: C#
---
# MVVM
## About
*simply a more layer of abstract*<br>
The Model, View, ViewModel (MVVM pattern) is all about guiding you in how to organize and structure your code to write maintainable, testable and extensible applications.<br>
The key feature that seperates MVVM to MVC is that MVVM is used to two-way bind data within views. This is usually a client-side implementation, for example, if your user interface uses a drag and drop, something needs to keep track of things like where the item being dragged is right now, how its appearance should change as it moves over possible drop targets, and how those drop targets might also change as the item is dragged over them.

* Not every piece of content need to be an MVVM view, if the chunk of content just provides the structure to render something to the screen and does not support any input or manipulation by the user for that content. It may not need a separate ViewModel, or it would be an overkill
---
## Logical layers
1. Model − It **simply holds the data** and has nothing to do with any of the business logic.<br>
    * In general, model is the simplest one to understand. It is the client side data model that supports the views in the application.<br>

    * It is composed of **objects with properties and some variables to contain data in memory**.

    * Some of those properties may have reference to other model objects and create the object graph which as a whole is the model objects.

    * Model objects should raise property change notifications which in WPF means data binding.

    * The last responsibility is validation which is optional, but you can embed the validation information on the model objects by using the WPF data binding validation features via interfaces like INotifyDataErrorInfo/IDataErrorInfo.<br>

2. ViewModel − It acts as the link/connection between the Model and ViewModel, and makes stuff look pretty.<br>
    * ViewModel is the main point of MVVM application. The primary responsibility of ViewModel is to provide data to the view, so that view can put that data on the screen.
    * The other key responsibility of ViewModel is to encapsulate the interaction logic for a view, but that does not mean all of the logic of the application should go into ViewModel.
3. View − It simply holds the formatted date and essentially delegates everything to the Model.<br>
    There are two ways to construct views. You can use any one of them.
    * View First Construction in XAML(modify view in VS xmal)
    * View First Construction in Code-behind(modify view through code)

---

## Invoker and Receiver
There are two main actors, the invoker and the receiver in Command pattern.

* Invoker

    Invoker is a piece of code which can execute some imperative logic. Typically, it is a **UI element** that the user interacts with in the context of a UI framework. But it could just be another chunk of logic code somewhere else in the application.

* Receiver

    Receiver is the logic that is intended for execution when the invoker fires. In the context of MVVM, the receiver is typically a method in your **ViewModel** that needs to be called.

* Delegate Command
    In between the invoker and the receiver you have an obstruction layer that does not allow the invoker and the receiver to explicitly know about each other. This is typically represented as an interface abstraction exposed to the invoker and a concrete implementation of that interface is capable of calling the receiver.

---
